.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH FREEJ 1 "August 2005" UNIX "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
FreeJ - vision mixer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B freej [
.I options
.B ] [
.I streaming options
.B ] [
.I layer files and video devices
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBFreeJ\fP is a vision mixer: an instrument for realtime video
manipulation used in the fields of dance teather, veejaying, medical
visualisation and TV.

With FreeJ multiple layers can be filtered thru effect chains and then
mixed together. The supported layer inputs are images, movies, live
cameras, particle generators, text scrollers and more.
All the resulting video mix can be shown on multiple and remote
screens, encoded into a movie and streamed live to the internet.

FreeJ can be controlled locally or remotely, also from multiple places
at the same time, using its slick console interface; can be automated
via javascript and operated via MIDI and Joystick.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h"
show commandline help
.IP "-v"
show version information
.IP "-D [\fI num \fP]"
set debug verbosity level to (1 to 3), default is 1
.IP "-s [\fI WxH \fP]"
set resolution to \fBW\fPidthx\fBH\fPeight, default is 400x300 
.IP "-n"
start with all layers deactivated
.IP "-c"
start without any interactive text console interface
.IP "-j [\fI javascript.js \fP]"
run the \fBjavascript.js\fP script file
.IP "-e [\fI file.ogg \fP]"
set the filename of the local encoded ogg-theora movie (default is: freej.ogg),
files already existing are not overwritten, instead filename-2.ogg is used;
if a number is given, the corresponding file descriptor is used.
To start/stop the recording and streaming use ctrl-w while running.

.SH STREAMING OPTIONS
.IP "-i [\fI server:port/mountpoint.ogg \fP]"
stream to the host \fBserver\fP on \fBport\fP with \fBmountpoint.ogg\fP
so the streaming url for players will be (assuming port is 8000)
\fBhttp://server:8000/mountpoint.ogg\fP
.IP "-p [\fI password \fP]"
\fBpassword\fP for the mountpoint on the streaming server
.IP "-a"
don't use any audio in the stream, by default it is recorded from the
input device that is set in the mixer
.IP "-t [\fI name \fP]"
name of the stream, by default is "Streaming with FreeJ"
.IP "-d [\fI description \fP]"
description of the stream, by default is "Free the veejay in you"
.IP "-T [\fI quality of video encoding \fP]"
set the quality for the theora video encoding, range \fBfrom 0 to 63\fP,
by default is 16.
0 means less quality, less bandwidth occupation and a smaller file, 63 more.
.IP "-V [\fI quality of audio encoding \fP]"
set the quality for the vorbis audio encoding, range \fBfrom -1 to 10\fP,
by default is 1. -1 means less quality, less bandwidth occupation and a smaller file,
10 more.

.SH FILES AND DEVICES
\fBFreeJ\fP can run with an infinite number of layers, as much as your
CPU can handle. Layer types are recognized from file extensions.

\fBSupported layers types\fP include:
.IP "\fImovies\fP (*.avi|*.asf|*.asf|*.wma|*.wmv|*.mov|*.mpeg)"
.IP "\fItext\fP (*.txt)"
depends from \fBfreetype\fP library \fIhttp://freetype.org\fR
.IP "\fIcameras\fP thru the Video4Linux device (/dev/v4l/*)"
.IP "\fIimages\fP (*.png|*.jpg and more)"
.IP "\fIflash animations\fP (*.swf)"
only the vectorial animation is supported (flash v.3),
no scripting nor streaming, but that's in FreeJ anyway ;)
.IP "\fIparticle generator\fP"
can be crated from commandline as \fBlayer_gen\fP (or ctrl-g while running)
to create a layer that doesn't needs any input, just draws nice particles
.IP "\fIany file type\fP"
if not recognized will be threated as a text scrolling layer showing
its contents scrolling them vertically on the screen

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Denis "Jaromil" Rojo - author and mantainer <\fIhttp://rastasoft.org\fR>

Silvano "Kysucix" Galliani - truetype text layer

A full list of developers and contributors can be found in the AUTHOR
file distributed with the source package.

\fBFreeJ\fP development is supported by the Nederlands Instituut voor
Mediakunst - Montevideo/Time Based Arts.

This manual page was written and is mantained by Jaromil.

Write to the mailinglist on <\fIhttp://lists.dyne.org/freej\fR> to
contact developers.
.fi

.SH COPYING
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this manual
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections. Permission is granted to make and distribute
verbatim copies of this manual page provided the above copyright
notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

.SH AVAILABILITY
The most recent version of \fIFreeJ\fR can be attained from its
homepage at \fIhttp://freej.dyne.org\fR and from the \fIftp.dyne.org\fR
software repository.
